all right Sagar what's on your radar
well yesterday at 9 a.m. we brought you
to breaking news unemployment claims in
this country surpassed the all-time
record high by 400% to hit 3.3 million
claims in a single week that was the
worst single week in American history as
I am in the worst part that number is
almost certainly too low as unemployment
offices across the 50 states are
inundated with so many claims they're
unable to process the sheer volume in a
single day now juxtapose that graphic
with this one the Dow Jones Industrial
Average closed 11.4% up on the news that
the Senate had passed a massive
corporate bailout with its best day
since 1933 during the Great Depression I
can't think of two better news items
mashed together that spell out the
direction of the country in the coming
years it's like holding up an exact
mirror to 2008 when Bank survived and
homeowners were kicked out on their ass
and the populist uprising that I warned
of last week seems all but certain now
interestingly enough it will likely be
because of a housing crisis again let me
explain the first of the month looms
large for millions of Americans due to
have rent now some landlords are
allowing delayed payments and
forbearance but it's not in any way a
nationwide guarantee which means
millions might just miss it and as we
covered on the show yesterday restaurant
retailers Cheesecake Factory and Burger
King announced ahead of April 1st they
will not be able to pay rent on April
1st so if capitalized food chains can't
pay rent
what about average American citizens and
say there's even a freeze on their rent
that rent is still going to be due
there's no current replacement of lost
income just a $1,200 payment in three
weeks and expanded unemployment if you
lose your job to pay future rents but
not necessarily enough to pay the first
rent rent and mortgage uncertainty is an
individual tragedy for millions but
combine it all together at the exact
same time and we're looking at another
financial crisis commercial mortgage
debt in America right now has increased
by 3 trillion dollars which is above
where it was in 2008 with non-essential
businesses closed across the financial
Centers of America very few businesses
and people are going to be paying rent
who in turn can't pay their debts who in
turn can't give returns to Wall Street
and as you all know
it's that financial interconnectivity
which led this system to spiral out of
control in 2008 and I think it's gonna
happen again we're gonna have a
simultaneous bottom up a top down
recession due to the way that Wall
Street has financialized everything in
this economy and that is how things go
really haywire banks and other lending
firms can fail small businesses who need
credit when they need to reopen won't
have access to it when they need it the
most and of course everyday Americans
are gonna be struggling just to make
back that one or two months rent that is
due and once again interconnected
financial engineering could be the
downfall of whatever is left of the US
economy and as usual Wall Street knows
they'll never have to take a haircut
they're gonna get bailed out like we did
other sectors of our economy just now
average homeowners are once again
looking at a situation where they might
lose their homes in the long run where
they might go into huge credit-card debt
just to pay their rent where they have
bill ramifications for years as a result
of this crisis that will be the
wellspring of the revolt people had this
happen to them once in 2008 Washington
responded with neoliberalism on steroids
Wall Street bailouts and more the events
of this week have showed us that they
haven't learned anything and it's coming
again and this time I don't think we're
gonna take it anymore not twice in two
decades will the American taxpayer be
left holding the bag and have nothing to
say about it
and crystal that Wall Street Journal
article that I pulled up there shows
that commercial mortgage debt is higher
than it was in 2008 is that billionaire
investors are already shorting corporate
debt they're saying this is one of the
unseen market opportunities right and so
they always look at it and commercial
real estate folks that I've talked to
are saying that 95 percent of their
clients are not going to be able to make
rent and in that same Journal article
they talked about in New York City about
how some landlords force the businesses
they said no you still got to pay rent
so what do the business have to do fire
everybody they have fire their entire
staff that just shows you the Sharks
that are out there they're involved in
this and the reason I want to highlight
it is because it's not just business
it's everybody everybody doesn't start
paying their rent
there are huge landlord conglomerates
which take all that money and then they
funnel it up which is created into
securities yeah
traded on Wall Street's just like 2008
not that much change we just know a
little bit more about it that's the
transparency so if the bottom falls out
of that which I really think it's going
to in the next two weeks we're gonna
have a bottom-up top-down recession and
that's how you screw the entire
financial system in fact according to
Erin Glen's who you know we've been
having on this show for months now
talking about housing and the fallout
for the crisis how people still haven't
recovered how that market has changed I
mean you see things like trailer parks
being bought up
we're in financial eyes I mean it's
actually maybe in a worse situation
where the whole market is even more
commodified and financialized than it
was before 2008 but I think it also
speaks to the fact that you know in this
town everything always runs on top-down
like look at this bailout package that
just passed the Senate it's you know
sure people get 1,200 bucks one time
sure small businesses get these loans
that can be forgiven if they use it for
payroll piddling amounts compared to
what the big corporations are gonna get
and the concierge treatment from the
Federal Reserve and the loans that
they're gonna receive so it's always
runs on top down and yet you can't even
for those big corporations it's not
gonna work out for them know if people
at the bottom if the grassroots if the
little guy trying to pay their rent and
make their mortgage is unable to do that
those are the impacts that actually
reverberate throughout the entire
economy and will take down like dominos
everybody from the bottom to the top and
that's the part that they never
understand they think if they can prop
themselves up the little guy can get
screwed and they're still gonna be fine
there's just a total disconnect there
and that's what happened in 2008 it's
only when people started defaulting on
their mortgages that the daisy-chain
started to go up and then they were over
leveraged up at the top and I not much
has changed that's the crazy part and
all it took was a single shock to the
system like this and we could be on the
verge of all of us happening the banks
are bigger it was massive consolidation
after 2008 so the the big banks got even
bigger a lot of people got rich off of
that and they do have to go through
these stress tests so they're in better
they're better capitalized than they
were so we should make sure that that is
clear but yeah did anything really
fundamentally change in terms of the
structure of the market now you once
again because I know a lot of you guys
number this but if you think back to
2008 what was the prom well you had
these these debt obligations that were
basically took a bunch of mortgages and
put them together and then the bond
rating aid they rated these very very
highly like they were very you know and
so people thought these were safe
investments even though the underlying
asset would be you know all these these
mortgage brokers were getting anyone
that they could no matter their income
into these mortgages so it was all
garbage right and nothing about that has
really changed especially when you have
a massive shock like this Americans are
still backs against the wall
forty percent not having four hundred
bucks for an emergency and you think
that these mortgages and rent
obligations that these are sound
financial instruments they're not no
they're not they're always subject to be
shot what we're really gonna learn is
when these small businesses have to open
up because where's the cash they're not
gonna have that much cash yeah they
might have payroll but they don't have
any top-up investment they're gonna need
credit lines they're gonna need more
they're gonna be able to make back their
rent you think landlords are just gonna
forgive three months of rent how do you
make back red you can't just spin up
operations you got to go out and buy
food on credit I mean there's all this
stuff that isn't gonna work against
these small business owners and that's
what makes me so angry is the small
business owners and the workers are
gonna be able to still they're still
gonna have to pay their debts they're
never gonna get the haircuts yeah what
that Wall Street you know we'll take in
theory and they get bailed out by
Washington is that all of that is gonna
keep people down for decades and it's
just decades I mean you can't forgo
months of lost income not get it made
back and be the same afterwards people
it's a fantasy people are like oh we're
gonna have 29 percent GDP growth you
know after this is all done that may be
true but it's all about distribution
it's all about structure and I can I'm
looking at this thing right now and I'm
like a this is a disaster waiting to
happen and of course like I said actual
investors are looking at the same
opportunity this is a great investment
opportunity for me to short the short
term of the market that Pathak me a
psychopathic and sociopathic and what it
demonstrates is where power resides and
like I said this will I think be the
true stimulus for a real populist
uprising again because you can't have it
happen twice and and you can't have
people lose their houses twice
it's so important to say everyday that
this is not necessary other countries
handle this different look there's gonna
be pain all around right no country is
gonna escape coronavirus and dealing
with this pandemic without economic pain
for many many people but in other
countries they did this differently so
that people could stay in their jobs so
that they had that certainty so that
yeah when you do come back out when you
are able to combat the virus things can
go back to normal more quickly because
people have that certainty of they're
still getting their paycheck they're
still attached to their job by the way
they all have health care which is
always a helpful thing in this country
we didn't do it that way and so that's
why you have this massive unemployment
numbers it was not necessary it did not
happen have to happen this way and
that's the most important thing to keep
in mind it's just these were choices
it's a perfect storm for the financial
system again because and this is some of
the most respected people I know in
finance are all talking about this which
is look the whole economy is on
consumers and on people paying in money
flows up right and then the Wall Street
takes it and makes them do fake stuff
and they make even more money tell it on
top of eeeh they sell it to each other
for varying rates and somehow somebody
makes money that's basically the entire
US economy and so what they did is they
bailed out the people at the top but the
people at the bottom are still there
they still have to pay and there's no
money for them to pay it so DC has
actually just dealt themselves even
worse of a footing because we're gonna
be right back at this table again for a
multi trillion dollar bailout when we
could have done it right the first time
by switching the roles taking it from
the bottom putting money in the bottom
and then everything will continue to
flow upwards and instead they just
decided to bail the people out at the
top the bottom is still gonna fail and
that's what I worry about the most
priority so there you go all right how
are workers trying to protect themselves
during the pandemic one worker he's
gonna share a story trying to keep up
with demands while working in unsanitary
and sanitary conditions and that's next